Another key concept for understanding
a company's growth is to
understand the difference between
organic and inorganic growth.
We have seen the Ansov
matrix.
The Antsov matrix, I like to
explain it this way.
Ansov's matrix explains to us,
indicates us where we should grow.
If we grow in the current market, if
we go to new markets, if we go with
new products, it is where we
are going.
Now we'll see how to grow.
Once we have decided where
to grow, let's see how we
can do it.
There are two ways.
Businesses can grow organically
or they can grow inorganically.
These are not substitute decisions.
A company can have many growth
strategies in parallel and
in each one choose the organic
or inorganic form.
Growing organically is growing
from your internal resources.
And growing in an organic way is
supporting you in a second company,
buying, merging, making a joint
venture or making a strategic alliance.
To understand it well, grow in
anorganic way.
Facebook has grown inorganically
with the Facebook brand around
the world in a very short time
thanks to a huge competitive
advantage, thanks to the
network effect, etc.
In a few years it has expanded around
the world in an organic way with
its brand, its resources, its
capabilities.
However, Facebook not only
grows organically, it also has
within the group strategies for
inorganic growth, which in this
case is the acquisition, for
example of Instagram or WhatsApp.
This is growing in an organic way.
He bought these two companies.
Inditex, the world's leading textile
group, has grown in an organic
way at the time when, for example,
in the 1990s, it bought two brands,
Massimo Dutty and Stradivarius,
bought two competing brands,
bought Massimo Dutty to
raise the quality and
price of its products
a little.
That's a clear example of inorganic
growth, but of course, Inditex
has also grown organically
because all the subsequent
growth it has made with
those brands is organic.
It has expanded worldwide,
developed new products, etc.
This is organic growth.
The difference between organic
and inorganic growth is very
simple.
You probably already understand, but
here the key is to understand what
are the advantages and disadvantages.
Why do companies decide
to build, build or buy?
Well, let's start with the
benefits of organic growth.
The first is that you grow
from your competitive advantages.
Focus on what you are good about.
When an organization grows organically,
it is thanks to its competitive
advantages, its knowledge, its
resources, whatever it is,
it is growing little by little.
The initial investment is also smaller.
You think that if you have
to buy another company, you have
to come to an agreement and
pay and pay initially or in
places or as pacts, but you have
to face a large investment.
If you grow organically,
you adapt to the resources
you have at every
moment.
It is easier to grow organically.
The inorganic, mergers, acquisitions
have many complexities
that we will see.
We have to bring together two companies
with different cultures, etc.
There are many tensions and
organic growth is more flexible.
You can grow at the pace you want.
If we want to, imagine Inditex, the case
before, because if you want to
open two stores in a country, three,
four, which are, but of course, if
you buy a company, because in that
brand equal they have a hundred
points of sale, a hundred
stores, because that
growth is not flexible.
Let's go to the advantages
of inorganic growth, which are
mainly two advantages.
One is speed.
If you want to grow very fast,
inorganic growth is easier.
If you are a competitor who has
the same market share as you,
you can double your market share
if you buy it the next day.
It is much more immediate.
Or do you want to go to another country?
For between growing organically,
you have to get there,
create offices, learn,
file people, etc.
When you buy a company that is
there, you can imagine
the difference in speed, in the
immediate.
And the second advantage, it's something
very important that we have to
understand, it's a concept that
you have to incorporate, it's synergies.
The synergies between the company
that buys and the company that buys.
The synergies are basically explained in this way.
There are synergies when one plus one
is not two, they are three, because
they are benefited.
Either the one who buys, or the one
who sells, or the whole.
And synergies are produced by
a number of different factors.
Let us look at some as an example.
Sometimes it is the distribution channel.
Kellogg's bought Pringles
to win the world's
business.
Well, think Kellogg's for example
has agreements for many years
with distribution channels
like Walmart for example.
And Pringles probably has other
deals with other major distributors.
Well, because by joining the two
companies, with the formula it is,
both come out benefited from that.
Kellogg's can start selling on the distribution
channels that Pringles and Pringles have developed,
and Kellogg's can also start
selling on the distribution channels
and vice versa.
The channel of technology.
Amazon has acquired Whole Foods.
It is a recent operation that is very
well known and that synergies have
been much analyzed.
And I'll explain to you, for example,
so that you can visualize the benefits
of both.
Amazon already had sales.
There are some shops called Amazon
Go.
Amazon is a technologically
advanced company that invests
a lot in I plus D.
And what has been implanted in
those points of sale is a checkout
system in which you when you leave
the store do not have to stop paying,
but you get it directly from
your card associated with your
Amazon user.
This is a technology that Amazon has.
Whole Foods doesn't have that
technology, it has many others, but
that doesn't.
When Amazon buys Whole Foods,
Whole Foods will probably
benefit from that technology
developed by Amazon and will
soon be deployed in Whole
Foods stores.
It is an example of synergy or vice versa.
In this case, I say the opposite
because it is a synergy that Amazon
will benefit from.
Amazon has a service that is Amazon
Fresh that by buying Whole Foods will
improve because it will be able
to incorporate the offer of Whole
Foods products of higher quality and
also the logistics improves
because it has more points of distribution,
etc.
These are two examples of synergies.
One plus one is equal to three because
both companies are beneficial.